FTP has had a long evolution over the years.  Appendix III is a
chronological compilation of Request for Comments documents
relating to FTP.  These include the first proposed file transfer
mechanisms in 1971 that were developed for implementation on hosts
at M.I.T. (RFC 114), plus comments and discussion in RFC 141.

RFC 172 provided a user-level oriented protocol for file transfer
between host computers (including terminal IMPs).  A revision of
this as RFC 265, restated FTP for additional review, while RFC 281
suggested further changes.  The use of a "Set Data Type"
transaction was proposed in RFC 294 in January 1982.

RFC 354 obsoleted RFCs 264 and 265.  The File Transfer Protocol
was now defined as a protocol for file transfer between HOSTs on
the ARPANET, with the primary function of FTP defined as
transfering files efficiently and reliably among hosts and
allowing the convenient use of remote file storage capabilities.
RFC 385 further commented on errors, emphasis points, and
additions to the protocol, while RFC 414 provided a status report
on the working server and user FTPs.  RFC 430, issued in 1973,
(among other RFCs too numerous to mention) presented further
comments on FTP.  Finally, an "official" FTP document was
published as RFC 454.

By July 1973, considerable changes from the last versions of FTP
were made, but the general structure remained the same.  RFC 542
was published as a new "official" specification to reflect these
changes.  However, many implementations based on the older
specification were not updated.

In 1974, RFCs 607 and 614 continued comments on FTP.  RFC 624
proposed further design changes and minor modifications.  In 1975,
RFC 686 entitled, "Leaving Well Enough Alone", discussed the
differences between all of the early and later versions of FTP.
RFC 691 presented a minor revision of RFC 686, regarding the
subject of print files.

Motivated by the transition from the NCP to the TCP as the
underlying protocol, a phoenix was born out of all of the above
efforts in RFC 765 as the specification of FTP for use on TCP.

This current edition of the FTP specification is intended to
correct some minor documentation errors, to improve the
explanation of some protocol features, and to add some new
optional commands.
